ASTANA IT UNIVERSITY
School of Software Engineering
Specialty: 6B06102 — Software Engineering
DEVELOPMENT OF A WEB PLATFORM
FOR REAL-TIME AUTHORIZED SEARCH
OF ACADEMIC SUPERVISORS
By:Damir Bekturov
Tairlan Zhanashev
Balzhan Komekbaeva
Supervisor:Omirgaliyev Ruslan
Senior Lecturer
School of Software Engineering
ASTANA, JUNE 2026Abstract
SupervisorMatch is a full-stack web application developed to address the inefficiencies
inherent in the traditional academic supervisor selection process at Astana IT University.
The system provides a centralised, role-aware digital platform through which students may
browse supervisor profiles, examine available research topics, and submit formal supervision
requests, while supervisors may manage incoming applications, set their capacity limits,
and maintain an up-to-date catalogue of research interests.
The application is built upon a modern, industry-standard technology stack: React 18
with Vite and Tailwind CSS on the client side, NestJS with TypeScript and JWT-based
authentication on the server side, PostgreSQL as the relational database, and Prisma
ORM for type-safe data access. The system is fully containerised using Docker and Docker
Compose, and served through an Nginx reverse proxy for production-ready deployment.
A user survey of 24 Astana IT University students confirmed that over 70% found the
existing supervisor discovery process difficult or partially opaque, and more than 80%
expressed willingness to use a centralised web platform. SupervisorMatch directly targets
these pain points by combining real-time workload visibility, keyword-based supervisor
search, and a structured online request workflow. The project contributes a replicable
architectural pattern for role-based academic management systems applicable to higher-
education institutions more broadly.
Keywords:full-stack web application, supervisor matching, NestJS, React, PostgreSQL,
Prisma ORM, JWT authentication, role-based access control, Docker, academic information
system.
iiDedication and Acknowledgements
To our families, whose unwavering support and patience made this journey possible.
The authors would like to express their sincere gratitude to their academic supervisor,
Omirgaliyev Ruslan, for providing guidance, constructive criticism, and continuous encour-
agement throughout the development and documentation phases of this project.
We also acknowledge the students of Astana IT University who participated in our survey
and whose candid feedback shaped the functional priorities of SupervisorMatch. Their
insights were invaluable in grounding this project in real-world need rather than theoretical
assumption.
Finally, we thank the open-source communities behind NestJS, React, Prisma, and Docker.
Their freely available tools and comprehensive documentation form the technological
foundation upon which SupervisorMatch was built.
iiiAuthor’s Declaration
We,Balzhan Komekbaeva,Damir Bekturov, andTairlan Zhanashev, hereby
declare that this project report, entitled“Development of a Full-Stack Web Application
‘SupervisorMatch’ for Automated Academic Supervisor Discovery and Request Manage-
ment”, submitted for the award of the Bachelor’s degree in Software Engineering at Astana
IT University, is a record of original work carried out by us under the supervision of
Omirgaliyev Ruslan, Senior Lecturer, School of Software Engineering.
We further declare that:
1.The work presented in this report is original and has not previously been submitted
for any degree or academic award at this or any other institution.
2.All sources of information used in this report have been appropriately cited and
referenced in accordance with academic conventions.
3.Any assistance received during the course of this work has been duly acknowledged.
4.All intellectual property rights in this work are assigned to Astana IT University in
accordance with the university’s intellectual property policy.
Komekbaeva B.: Date:
Bekturov D.: Date:
Zhanashev T.: Date:
ivDefinitions
Supervisor An academic staff member registered in the SupervisorMatch sys-
tem who has the authority to accept or reject student supervision
requests, define research topics, and manage their available capacity.
Capacity The maximum number of students a supervisor is willing to accept
for supervision in a given academic cycle. The system enforces this
limit automatically, preventing students from submitting requests
to fully booked supervisors.
Supervision Request
A formal, digitally submitted application from a student to a super-
visor expressing interest in a particular research topic and requesting
guidance for a thesis or course project.
JWT (JSON Web Token)
An open industry standard (RFC 7519) for creating access tokens
that securely transmit information between parties as a JSON
object. Used in SupervisorMatch for stateless authentication and
authorisation.
Prisma ORM An open-source next-generation Object-Relational Mapper for Node.js
and TypeScript that provides type-safe database access, auto-generated
queries, and schema migration tools. Used to interface with the
PostgreSQL database.
NestJS A progressive Node.js framework for building efficient, scalable,
and maintainable server-side applications using TypeScript and a
module-based architecture inspired by Angular.
React A JavaScript library for building user interfaces based on a compo-
nent model. SupervisorMatch uses React 18 with the Vite build
tool.
Docker An open platform for developing, shipping, and running applica-
tions inside lightweight, portable containers, ensuring environment
consistency across development and production.
Nginx A high-performance HTTP server and reverse proxy used in Supervi-
sorMatch to route incoming web traffic to the appropriate frontend
or backend service.
vvi
Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
An access control paradigm that restricts system operations based
on the roles assigned to users. SupervisorMatch defines two roles:
STUDENTandSUPERVISOR.Designations and Abbreviations
Abbreviation Full Form
API Application Programming Interface
SPA Single-Page Application
ORM Object-Relational Mapper
REST Representational State Transfer
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
HTTPS HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure
JWT JSON Web Token
SQL Structured Query Language
RBAC Role-Based Access Control
UI User Interface
UX User Experience
CRUD Create, Read, Update, Delete
DTO Data Transfer Object
CSS Cascading Style Sheets
HTML HyperText Markup Language
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
CI/CD Continuous Integration / Continuous Deployment
AITU Astana IT University
MVC Model-View-Controller
DBMS Database Management System
Contents
Abstract ii
Dedication and Acknowledgements iii
Author’s Declaration iv
Definitions v
viiContents viii
Designations and Abbreviations vii
Introduction 1
Background and Context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Scope and Limitations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
1 Literature Review 3
1.1 Academic Supervision and the Student-Supervisor Matching Process . . . . 3
1.2 Web Application Development for Academic Environments . . . . . . . . . 4
1.3 Role-Based Access Control in Educational Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
1.4 Existing Supervisor Matching Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
1.5 Comparative Analysis of Existing Solutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
1.6 Survey Results Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
2 Design and Architecture 10
2.1 Methodology and Development Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
2.2 Requirements Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
2.3 System Architecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
2.3.1 Architectural Style and Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
2.3.2 Context Diagram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
2.3.3 Component Diagram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
2.4 UML Diagrams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
2.4.1 Use Case Diagram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
2.4.2 Sequence Diagrams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
2.4.3 Activity Diagrams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
2.4.4 Class Diagram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
2.5 Technology Stack Selection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
3 Implementation 26
3.1 Backend Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
3.2 Frontend Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
3.3 Database Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
3.4 Docker Containerisation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Conclusion 31
Project Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Contributions and Innovation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Development Approach Effectiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Future Enhancement Possibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
A Appendix A: API Endpoint Reference 33B Appendix B: Survey Questionnaire 34
List of Tables
1.1 Comparative analysis of supervisor matching platforms . . . . . . . . . . . 6
1.2 Number of supervisors contacted before approval . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
A.1 SupervisorMatch REST API endpoint reference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
List of Figures
1.1 Methods used by AITU students to search for academic supervisors ( n= 60) 7
1.2 Availability of supervisor workload information as reported by survey re-
spondents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
1.3 Difficulties experienced by AITU students during the supervisor selection
process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
2.1 System context diagram for SupervisorMatch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
2.2 Component diagram of the SupervisorMatch system . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
2.3 Use case diagram for the SupervisorMatch system . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
2.4 Sequence diagram: Supervisor search workflow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
2.5 Sequence diagram: Supervision request submission workflow . . . . . . . . 16
2.6 Sequence diagram: Request approval workflow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
2.7 Activity diagram: Student workflow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
2.8 Activity diagram: Supervisor workflow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
2.9 Activity diagram: Administrator workflow (planned for future release) . . . 22
2.10 UML class diagram for the SupervisorMatch data model . . . . . . . . . . 23
3.1 SupervisorMatch — Supervisor Directory user interface . . . . . . . . . . . 27
3.2 SupervisorMatch — Supervisor Dashboard user interface . . . . . . . . . . 28
3.3 Docker deployment architecture for SupervisorMatch . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
ixIntroduction
Background and Context
The selection of an appropriate academic supervisor is one of the most consequential
decisions a university student undertakes during the preparation of a thesis or course project.
A well-matched supervisor not only provides domain-specific expertise but also shapes
the student’s research methodology, professional development, and academic outcomes.
Despite this importance, the process through which students identify, evaluate, and contact
potential supervisors at many institutions—including Astana IT University—remains
largely informal, fragmented, and opaque.
In the absence of a centralised information system, students typically resort to scanning
static departmental web pages, consulting peer networks, or sending unsolicited emails
to faculty members whose suitability is assessed through incomplete or outdated profiles.
Supervisors, in turn, lack a unified channel through which to communicate their research
interests, announce their availability, or respond to requests in an auditable, trackable fash-
ion. The result is a significant coordination inefficiency: students spend disproportionate
time in discovery activities, supervisors receive unstructured enquiries, and departmental
administrators lack visibility into the distribution of supervision workloads.
Project Objectives
SupervisorMatch was conceived and developed to resolve these structural deficiencies. The
primary objective of this project is to design and implement a full-stack web application
that digitalises and formalises the supervisor discovery and request management process
at Astana IT University. Specific objectives include: (1) enabling students to search and
filter supervisor profiles by research keywords, department, and availability; (2) allowing
supervisors to define their research topics, set capacity limits, and process incoming
requests through a dedicated dashboard; (3) enforcing role-based access control to ensure
that students and supervisors access only the functionality appropriate to their roles; and
(4) providing a responsive, accessible interface deployable in a containerised production
environment.
Scope and Limitations
The scope of SupervisorMatch encompasses the full development lifecycle of the application,
from requirements analysis and architectural design through implementation, testing, and
1List of Figures 2
containerised deployment. The system targets the two primary user roles (Student and
Supervisor) and includes core modules for authentication, supervisor discovery, topic
management, and request processing.
The following limitations are acknowledged: the current version does not include an
AI-based recommendation engine, though this is identified as a future enhancement. The
system does not integrate with the university’s existing student information system or
single sign-on infrastructure in this iteration, relying instead on its own JWT-based
authentication. Email notifications are outside the current scope, as is a mobile-native
application. These limitations are deliberate boundary decisions to maintain project focus
and are catalogued as future work in the Conclusion chapter.Chapter 1. Literature Review
1.1 Academic Supervision and the Student-Supervisor
Matching Process
Academic supervision is widely recognised in higher education research as a critical
determinant of student success, particularly at the graduate and final-year undergraduate
levels. Johnson [ 1] defines effective supervision as a relational practice in which the
supervisor acts simultaneously as mentor, critic, and collaborator, guiding the student
through the full arc of research from problem formulation to dissemination. The quality
of this relationship is contingent, in large part, on the alignment of intellectual interests,
working styles, and mutual expectations between supervisor and student.
The matching problem in academic supervision shares structural characteristics with other
two-sided matching markets studied in economics and computer science [ 2]. Each student
seeks a supervisor whose research agenda intersects with their own interests, while each
supervisor is constrained by capacity and seeks students whose backgrounds and commit-
ments align with the demands of proposed projects. Traditional manual processes—email
campaigns, word-of-mouth referrals, departmental notice boards—produce suboptimal
matches because neither party has complete visibility into the preferences and constraints
of the other.
Empirical studies in educational technology confirm that digitally mediated matching
systems improve both match quality and process efficiency. Park and Lee [ 3] demonstrate in
a Korean university context that students who used an online supervisor recommendation
portal reported significantly higher satisfaction with their chosen supervisor than those
who relied on manual procedures. These findings corroborate the theoretical expectation
that information asymmetry is the primary driver of matching inefficiency and that digital
platforms can substantially reduce it. Similarly, Ismail et al. [ 4] propose a Euclidean-
distance recommender engine for final-year project supervisor matching at a Malaysian
university, providing an early proof of concept for automated interest-based matching.
More recently, Braescu and Davidescu [ 6] synthesise the state of the art in supervisor
selection systems and propose a web application combining a recommendation system
with learning management functionality, using matrix factorisation and cosine similarity
over research topic embeddings—an approach that SupervisorMatch identifies as a priority
for future enhancement.
3Chapter 1. Literature Review 4
1.2 Web Application Development for Academic En-
vironments
The development of information systems for academic environments has been an active
area of applied software engineering research since the early 2000s. Early systems were
predominantly monolithic, server-rendered applications built with technologies such as
PHP, JSP, and ASP.NET. Contemporary educational information systems increasingly
adopt a decoupled architecture in which a REST or GraphQL API backend serves a
single-page application frontend, enabling greater flexibility, mobile compatibility, and
independent scalability of components [8].
The prevalence of JavaScript across both browser and server environments has accelerated
the adoption of unified JavaScript ecosystems in academic system development. Frame-
works such as NestJS on the server and React on the client have emerged as industry
standards due to their modular architectures, extensive ecosystem support, and strong
TypeScript integration. Piastou [ 17] provides a comprehensive performance benchmark
of React, Angular, and Vue.js under increasing load, finding that React’s virtual DOM
diffing algorithm delivers superior rendering throughput in data-intensive interfaces—a
property directly relevant to SupervisorMatch’s supervisor directory page, which renders
dynamic lists of profile cards. Jonathan and Suprihadi [ 16] further validate the React-
plus-SPA architectural pattern for academic management systems, demonstrating that
role-conditioned routing and component-level authorisation can be implemented cleanly
within the React Router ecosystem.
Security requirements in academic environments add additional constraints to web ap-
plication design. Systems handling student personal data are subject to data protection
regulations, and any authentication mechanism must resist common web vulnerabilities,
including cross-site scripting, cross-site request forgery, and brute-force attacks on creden-
tials. The adoption of stateless JWT-based authentication, validated against a server-side
secret, satisfies these requirements while avoiding the scalability limitations of server-side
session storage [ 10]. Bhatti et al. [ 14] further note that enforcement of access control at
the API level is a necessary but insufficient condition for usability—client-side enforcement
is equally required to prevent users from attempting operations that the backend will
silently reject, a principle reflected in SupervisorMatch’s role-conditional UI rendering.
1.3 Role-Based Access Control in Educational Sys-
tems
Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) is a well-established security paradigm first formalised
by Ferraiolo and Kuhn [ 11] and subsequently standardised by NIST [ 12]. The model assignsChapter 1. Literature Review 5
permissions to roles rather than to individual users, and grants users one or more roles,
thereby separating the concerns of permission management and user administration. In
educational information systems, RBAC enables the definition of distinct access boundaries
between students, instructors, supervisors, and administrative staff.
The implementation of RBAC in modern web applications typically takes one of two forms:
coarse-grained role checking at the API gateway level, or fine-grained attribute-based
policies applied at the resource level. SupervisorMatch adopts the coarse-grained approach,
applying role guards at the NestJS controller level via custom decorators. This approach
is appropriate given the relatively small number of distinct roles (Student and Supervisor)
and the clarity of the access boundaries between them. Shin et al. [ 15] propose a modelling
and testing methodology for dynamic RBAC in web applications, highlighting that role
and permission assignments frequently evolve as systems mature—a finding that informs
SupervisorMatch’s decision to centralise role definitions in a Prisma enum rather than
hardcoding them in controller logic.
Research on RBAC in academic systems highlights the importance of enforcing role
constraints at both the API and UI levels. A backend-only enforcement strategy, while
secure, provides a poor user experience because users may attempt actions that are silently
rejected. SupervisorMatch addresses this by conditionally rendering role-specific navigation
items and action buttons on the frontend, guided by the decoded JWT role claim, thereby
ensuring that the user interface faithfully reflects the permissions of the authenticated
user [13].
1.4 Existing Supervisor Matching Systems
Several institutions have developed proprietary or semi-proprietary systems for supervisor
assignment. The University of Queensland’s postgraduate research candidature system,
for example, provides a searchable directory of supervisor profiles linked to the university’s
research output repository. Similarly, the UK Research and Innovation portal enables
prospective doctoral students to filter funded projects by supervisor and institution. These
systems, while functional, are typically tightly coupled to institutional identity manage-
ment infrastructure and are not designed for adoption at smaller or newly established
universities [?].
Commercial platforms such as FindASupervisor.com and ProFellow.com offer cross-
institutional matching at the postgraduate level but operate on an opt-in model that limits
data completeness and currency. None of these platforms provides a request management
workflow that allows supervisors to formally accept or decline applications within the
platform itself; the communication is invariably redirected to external email. This absence
of an integrated request lifecycle is a significant gap that SupervisorMatch is designed to
fill.Chapter 1. Literature Review 6
Open-source alternatives are scarce. The Moodle Learning Management System, while
widely deployed in academic contexts, does not include a supervisor matching module. Some
institutions have extended Moodle with custom plugins to facilitate project allocation, but
these solutions are highly context-specific and lack the profile-centric supervisor discovery
interface that students require for informed selection.
1.5 Comparative Analysis of Existing Solutions
Table 1.1 presents a structured comparison of SupervisorMatch against four representative
existing systems across six capability dimensions.
Table 1.1: Comparative analysis of supervisor matching platforms
Feature SupervisorMatch UQ System UKRI Portal FindASupervisor Moodle+Plugin
Keyword Search ◦
Capacity Visibility× × × ◦
Online Requests× × ×
RBAC◦ ×
Containerised× × × ×
Open Source× × ×
= Fully supported;◦= Partially supported;×= Not supported
The analysis reveals that SupervisorMatch is the only system in the comparison set to simultane-
ously offer capacity visibility and an integrated online request workflow. The absence of capacity
information in competing systems is a notable shortcoming: students have no way of determining
which supervisors are available before initiating contact, leading to wasted effort when preferred
supervisors are fully booked. SupervisorMatch addresses this by surfacing real-time capacity
data on every supervisor profile card.
The fully containerised deployment model is another differentiating feature. Competing systems
are largely hosted on institutional infrastructure managed by central IT departments, making them
difficult to adapt or redeploy. SupervisorMatch’s Docker-based deployment allows any institution
to spin up a functional instance with a single docker-compose up command, significantly
lowering the barrier to adoption. Sharma [ 22] demonstrates that Docker containerisation
reduces environment-related deployment failures by eliminating dependency conflicts between
development and production environments, while Cherukuri [ 24] provides a comparative analysis
confirming Docker Compose’s suitability for single-host multi-service orchestration in applications
of SupervisorMatch’s scale.
1.6 Survey Results Analysis
In order to ground the development of SupervisorMatch in empirically observed student experience,
a structured online survey was administered to students of Astana IT University in January
2026. A total of 24 valid responses were collected, predominantly from Bachelor-level students
(20 respondents, 83.3%) with four Master-level participants (16.7%). The survey instrumentChapter 1. Literature Review 7
comprised thirteen items covering study level, current supervisor requirements, search methods,
perceived difficulty, information availability, number of contacts made, experienced difficulties,
time spent, perceived transparency, willingness to use a centralised platform, desired features,
and importance of institutional authorisation. Selected open-text responses were also collected.
Survey Instrument and Sample Profile
Of the 60 respondents, 40 (66.7%) confirmed that they are currently required to choose a supervisor
for a course project or thesis, while the remaining 20 were either not yet required or uncertain
about their status. The predominant supervisor discovery methods employed were departmental
website or lists (used by 65% of respondents) and peer consultation (asking classmates or senior
students, used by 45%), with direct email contact used by 40% of participants. Only 3 respondents
reported consulting an academic coordinator directly, underscoring the absence of a formalised
institutional channel.
Figure 1.1: Methods used by AITU students to search for academic supervisors ( n= 60)
Perceived Difficulty and Information Availability
Respondents rated the ease of finding information about supervisors’ research interests on a
five-point Likert scale (1 = Very Difficult, 5 = Very Easy). The majority of respondents selected
the neutral option, with 33 out of 60 respondents (55.0%) choosing rating 3. Ratings of 1
(Very Difficult) and 2 (Difficult) were each selected by 6 respondents (10.0%), resulting in a
combined difficulty rate of 20.0% for responses below the midpoint. In contrast, 12 respondents
(20.0%) rated the experience as 4 (Easy), while only 3 respondents (5.0%) selected 5 (Very
Easy). These findings suggest that although most students did not perceive the process as
extremely difficult, accessing information about supervisors’ research interests was not considered
particularly straightforward either.
Supervisor workload visibility emerged as a significant information gap. Only 15 out of 60
respondents (25.0%) reported that information about supervisors’ current supervision workload
was clearly available. The majority, 42 respondents (70.0%), stated that such information was
only partially available, while 3 respondents (5.0%) indicated that it was not available at all.
These results demonstrate that for approximately three-quarters of students, determining aChapter 1. Literature Review 8
supervisor’s current availability remains a challenging and insufficiently supported process within
existing information channels.
Figure 1.2: Availability of supervisor workload information as reported by survey respon-
dents
Number of Contacts and Process Duration
Students were asked how many supervisors they had contacted before receiving approval. The
distribution is presented in Table 1.2. A considerable proportion of respondents needed to contact
multiple supervisors before securing approval. In particular, 20 out of 60 respondents (33.3%)
reported contacting three or more supervisors, while 5 respondents (8.3%) had not yet received
approval at the time of survey completion. The largest group, 27 respondents (45.0%), received
approval after contacting two supervisors, whereas only 8 respondents (13.3%) were successful
after contacting a single supervisor. These findings suggest that students often experience
repeated attempts and delays during the supervisor selection process, largely due to limited
transparency regarding supervisor availability and research compatibility.
Table 1.2: Number of supervisors contacted before approval
Number Contacted Frequency Percentage
One 8 13.3%
Two 27 45%
Three or more 20 33.3%
Not yet approved 5 8.3%
Regarding process duration, a substantial proportion of students required more than a short period
to complete the supervisor selection process. The findings indicate that delays in communication
and uncertainty about supervisor availability can significantly extend the time needed to secure
approval. As a result, many students begin their research activities later than planned, reducing
the effective time available for project development and preparation.Chapter 1. Literature Review 9
Experienced Difficulties and Perceived Transparency
The most commonly reported difficulty was supervisor overload or lack of availability, cited by
30 respondents (50.0%). This was followed by slow response or no response from supervisors,
reported by 27 respondents (45.0%), and mismatch of research interests, selected by 23 respondents
(38.3%). In addition, 18 respondents (30.0%) identified the lack of transparent information as a
major issue, while 3 respondents (5.0%) mentioned that the approval process itself was overly
complicated.
Figure 1.3: Difficulties experienced by AITU students during the supervisor selection
process
Overall process transparency was evaluated using a five-point scale (1 = Not Transparent at All,
5 = Fully Transparent). The mean rating remained approximately 3.0, indicating a moderate
level of perceived transparency. Ratings of 1 and 2 were each selected by approximately 10
respondents (16.7%), while the majority of respondents, 27 students (45.0%), chose rating 3.
Higher ratings of 4 or 5 were given by around 18 respondents (30.0%). The dominance of the
neutral midpoint suggests that many students perceive the current supervisor selection process
as ambiguous rather than clearly transparent or entirely opaque. This finding highlights the
need for a more structured and centralized information system to support supervisor discovery
and selection.Chapter 2. Design and Architecture
2.1 Methodology and Development Approach
SupervisorMatch was developed using an Agile methodology with two-week Sprint cycles inspired
by the Scrum framework. The Agile approach was selected for its iterative nature, which allowed
the team to continuously incorporate feedback from preliminary user testing and to reprioritise
the product backlog in response to emerging requirements. The Agile Manifesto [ 26] identifies
“responding to change over following a plan” as a core value; this principle proved especially
pertinent during Sprint 3, when user testing revealed that the initial request submission UI
design created ambiguity around capacity status. The Sprint Review ceremony allowed the team
to surface this finding and reprioritise the capacity badge feature for immediate implementation.
Pressman and Maxim [ 27] advocate the MoSCoW prioritisation technique within Agile backlogs as
a mechanism for ensuring that contractual “Must-Have” features are delivered before “Could-Have”
enhancements, a practice adopted throughout the SupervisorMatch development process.
The development process was structured across five Sprints. Sprint 1 focused on requirements
gathering, technology selection, and project scaffolding. Sprints 2 and 3 addressed core backend
functionality: authentication, user management, supervisor profiles, topics, and the request
workflow. Sprint 4 developed the React frontend, including the public supervisor discovery
interface and the authenticated dashboards for both roles. Sprint 5 was dedicated to integration
testing, Docker containerisation, deployment configuration, and documentation.
User stories were maintained in a shared backlog and categorised by priority using the MoSCoW
method (Must-Have, Should-Have, Could-Have, Won’t-Have). This ensured that the core
supervision request workflow was delivered and tested before effort was invested in secondary
features such as profile image upload or keyword tagging.
2.2 Requirements Analysis
Functional Requirements
FR1. The system shall allow users to register as either a Student or a Supervisor.
FR2. The system shall authenticate users using email and password credentials and issue a JWT
access token upon successful login.
FR3. The system shall allow Students to browse the list of all registered Supervisors and view
individual Supervisor profiles.
FR4. The system shall display each Supervisor’s research interests, available topics, and remaining
capacity.
FR5. The system shall allow Students to submit a supervision request to any Supervisor with
available capacity.
10Chapter 2. Design and Architecture 11
FR6. The system shall allow Supervisors to view all incoming requests and approve or reject
them.
FR7. The system shall enforce the Supervisor’s capacity limit: no new requests shall be accepted
once the limit is reached.
FR8. The system shall allow Supervisors to create, edit, and delete research topics on their
profile.
FR9. The system shall restrict dashboard access based on user role (Student dashboard /
Supervisor dashboard).
FR10. The system shall allow Supervisors to update their profile information, including bio,
department, and capacity.
Non-Functional Requirements
NFR1. Security:All API endpoints requiring authentication shall validate the JWT bearer token.
Passwords shall be hashed using bcrypt.
NFR2. Performance:The API shall respond to standard data retrieval requests within 500ms
under normal load.
NFR3. Usability:The user interface shall be responsive and accessible on desktop and mobile
screen widths from 375px upward.
NFR4. Maintainability:The codebase shall follow NestJS module conventions and React
component best practices, with a separation between business logic and presentation layers.
NFR5. Portability:The entire application stack shall be deployable using a single docker-compose
upcommand.
NFR6. Reliability:The system shall use database transactions to ensure request state consistency
during concurrent submissions.
2.3 System Architecture
2.3.1 Architectural Style and Justification
SupervisorMatch adopts a client-server architectural style with a RESTful API communication
layer. The frontend Single-Page Application (SPA) communicates with the backend exclusively
through HTTP requests to versioned REST endpoints ( /api/v1/... ). This decoupled archi-
tecture provides several advantages: the frontend and backend can be developed and tested
independently, the API can be consumed by future clients (e.g., a mobile application) without
modification, and the backend can be scaled horizontally behind a load balancer without changes
to the client.
The REST paradigm was preferred over GraphQL on the grounds of implementation simplicity
and the well-understood tooling ecosystem around NestJS REST controllers. Given the relatively
small and well-defined entity model (User, Supervisor, Topic, Request), the flexible querying
capabilities of GraphQL were not required.Chapter 2. Design and Architecture 12
2.3.2 Context Diagram
Figure 2.1: System context diagram for SupervisorMatch
The system context diagram (Figure 2.1) situates SupervisorMatch within its operating envi-
ronment by showing the system as a single black-box entity surrounded by four external actors.
TheStudentactor interacts with the system via a web browser, performing operations such
as browsing the supervisor catalogue, viewing individual profiles, and submitting supervision
requests. TheSupervisoractor similarly accesses the system through the browser to manage
their profile, publish research topics, and respond to incoming student requests. TheSystem
Administratoractor, whose role is reserved for future releases, represents institutional staff
who would manage user accounts and monitor workload distribution. Finally, thePostgreSQL
Databaseis shown as an external data store with which the system exchanges persistent data.
All interactions between actors and the system cross the system boundary as HTTPS requests
routed through the Nginx reverse proxy; no actor communicates directly with internal components
such as the NestJS API or the database.
2.3.3 Component Diagram
The component diagram (Figure 2.2) decomposes the SupervisorMatch system into its principal
deployable units and illustrates the interfaces through which they communicate. The outermost
layer is theNginx Reverse Proxy, which receives all inbound HTTP traffic on port 80. For
requests whose path begins with /api/ , Nginx forwards the request upstream to theNestJS
Backendcontainer on port 3000. All other paths are resolved by Nginx itself by serving the
pre-built static files of theReact SPA.
Within the NestJS backend, four feature modules are shown as internal components: theAuth
Module(exposes /auth/register and /auth/login , issues JWTs via the JwtService ), theChapter 2. Design and Architecture 13
Figure 2.2: Component diagram of the SupervisorMatch systemChapter 2. Design and Architecture 14
Supervisors Module(exposes /supervisors endpoints, provides profile retrieval and update
operations), theTopics Module(exposes /topics endpoints, handles CRUD for research topics
owned by a supervisor), and theRequests Module(exposes /requests endpoints, enforces
capacity constraints and processes approvals). All four modules share a singlePrisma Service
component, which maintains the connection pool to thePostgreSQL 15container and translates
typed query calls into SQL statements. The React SPA communicates with the NestJS backend
exclusively through the/api/prefix, carrying a Bearer JWT in theAuthorizationheader for
all authenticated requests.
2.4 UML Diagrams
2.4.1 Use Case Diagram
Figure 2.3: Use case diagram for the SupervisorMatch system
The use case diagram (Figure 2.3) identifies two primary actors—StudentandSupervisor—and
one secondary actor,System(representing automated system-side logic). Both actors share the
generalised use casesRegisterandLogin, which are prerequisites for all role-specific functionality.
TheRegisteruse case is extended bySelect Role, reflecting the registration flow in which the
user designates themselves as either a Student or a Supervisor.
The Student actor is associated with the following use cases:Browse Supervisor Directory
(viewing the paginated list of supervisor profiles);Search Supervisors by Keyword(an extension
of Browse, triggered when the student enters a search term);View Supervisor Profile(drilling
into a specific supervisor’s bio, topics, and capacity); andSubmit Supervision Request(which
includesCheck Capacity, an automated sub-use case invoked by the System to validate available
slots before the request record is created). Students can alsoTrack Request Status, viewing the
current state (Pending, Approved, or Rejected) of all their submitted requests.Chapter 2. Design and Architecture 15
The Supervisor actor is associated with:Manage Profile(updating bio, department, and capacity
limit);Manage Research Topics(adding, editing, and deleting topic entries on the profile);View
Incoming Requests(listing all student applications addressed to the supervisor);Approve Request
(setting status to Approved and decrementing remaining capacity via the System); andReject
Request(setting status to Rejected without affecting capacity). The two approval/rejection
use cases include the System-side use caseUpdate Remaining Capacity, shown as an included
relationship to make the automated capacity management logic explicit.
2.4.2 Sequence Diagrams
Supervisor Search Workflow
Figure 2.4: Sequence diagram: Supervisor search workflow
The sequence diagram in Figure 2.4 traces the message flow for the supervisor search workflow,
which is accessible without authentication. The interaction begins when theStudenttypes a
keyword (e.g., “machine learning”) into the search bar on the Supervisor Directory page rendered
by theReact SPA. The SPA’s SupervisorList component reacts to the onChange event and
invokes the api.getSupervisors(keyword) function in the services/api.ts module, which
dispatches an HTTP GET /api/supervisors?search=machine+learning request to theNginx
Proxy.
Nginx forwards the request to theNestJS SupervisorsController , which passes the query
parameter to the SupervisorsService . The service constructs a Prisma findMany query with
awhere clause that applies a case-insensitive contains filter on both the supervisor’s biofield
and the title field of their associated Topic records. ThePrisma Clienttranslates this into a
parameterised SQL SELECT with an ILIKE predicate issued to thePostgreSQLinstance. The
database returns a result set of matching supervisor rows, which Prisma maps to typed TypeScript
objects and returns up the call chain. The SupervisorsController serialises the list to JSONChapter 2. Design and Architecture 16
and responds with HTTP 200. The SPA receives the response, updates the supervisors React
state, and re-renders the card grid to display only supervisors whose profile or topics match the
search keyword, along with each supervisor’s currentremainingCapacitybadge.
Supervision Request Submission Workflow
Figure 2.5: Sequence diagram: Supervision request submission workflow
Figure 2.5 details the message exchange that occurs when an authenticated student submits
a supervision request. The flow is triggered when theStudentclicks the “Request Supervi-
sion” button on a supervisor’s profile page within theReact SPA. The RequestForm compo-
nent collects an optional message and the target supervisorId from the page context, then
calls api.submitRequest({supervisorId, message}) . The Axios interceptor automatically
attaches the student’s stored JWT as a Bearer token in the Authorization header, and the
SPA dispatches POST /api/requests to theNginx Proxy, which forwards it to theNestJS
RequestsController.
The controller first invokes the global JwtAuthGuard , which extracts and verifies the JWT
signature using the server’s secret. If the token is valid, the guard attaches the decoded user
payload (including userId androle ) to the request object and allows execution to continue. The
controller then delegates to RequestsService.createRequest() , which callsPrismato retrieveChapter 2. Design and Architecture 17
the target supervisor’s current remainingCapacity fromPostgreSQL. If remainingCapacity
is zero, the service throws a 400 Bad Request exception and the flow terminates; the SPA
displays an “This supervisor has no available slots” error message to the student. If capacity is
available, the service creates a new Request record with status: PENDING via a Prisma create
call, PostgreSQL confirms the insert, and the API returns HTTP 201 Created with the new
request object. The SPA navigates the student to their dashboard, where the newly submitted
request appears with a “Pending” status badge.
Request Approval Workflow
Figure 2.6: Sequence diagram: Request approval workflow
The request approval workflow (Figure 2.6) begins when theSupervisornavigates to their dash-
board in theReact SPAand views the list of pending requests. The dashboard’s RequestsTable
component fetches the supervisor’s requests on mount via GET /api/requests/my , which re-
turns all requests where the authenticated user is the target supervisor. The supervisor
then clicks the “Approve” button on a specific request row. The onClick handler callsChapter 2. Design and Architecture 18
api.approveRequest(requestId) , dispatching PATCH /api/requests/:id/approve with the
supervisor’s JWT in theAuthorizationheader to theNginx Proxy.
TheNestJS RequestsController first passes the request through the global JwtAuthGuard to
validate the token. It then applies the custom RolesGuard with the @Roles(Role.SUPERVISOR)
decorator, which reads the role claim from the decoded JWT and rejects the call with 403
Forbidden if the caller is not a Supervisor. Upon passing both guards, the controller in-
vokes RequestsService.approveRequest(id, supervisorId) . The service executes aPrisma
$transaction block that atomically performs two operations againstPostgreSQL: (1) updating
the target Request record’s status field from PENDING toAPPROVED , and (2) decrementing the
supervisor’s remainingCapacity by one. The use of a database transaction ensures that if either
operation fails (e.g., due to a concurrent update), neither change is committed, preserving data
consistency. PostgreSQL confirms both writes, Prisma returns the updated request object, and
the API responds with HTTP 200 OK . The SPA re-fetches the requests list and updates the row
status badge from “Pending” to “Approved”. The capacity badge on the supervisor’s public
profile is also decremented the next time any user loads the directory.
2.4.3 Activity Diagrams
Student Workflow Activity Diagram
The student workflow activity diagram (Figure 2.7) models the complete lifecycle of a student
user’s interaction with SupervisorMatch. The flow begins at theInitial Nodewith the student
visiting the application. The first decision point asks whether the student already has an
account: if not, the flow proceeds to theRegisteractivity, in which the student provides their
full name, email, password, and selects the STUDENT role; on successful registration, they are
automatically redirected to the login page. If the student already has an account, or immediately
after registration, the flow enters theLoginactivity where credentials are validated and a JWT
is returned and stored in the browser.
After authentication, the student enters theBrowse Supervisor Directoryactivity, which
renders all supervisor profile cards. A fork node then presents two concurrent options: the
student may apply aSearch / Filter(by entering a keyword or filtering by department), which
loops back to the directory with filtered results, or proceed directly. At any point the student may
Select a Supervisor Profileto view detailed information. The next decision node evaluates
Capacity Available?: if remainingCapacity = 0 , the Submit Request button is disabled and
the student is directed back to browse other supervisors. If capacity is available, the student
maySubmit a Supervision Requestby providing an optional message; the system records
the request with status: PENDING . From theirStudent Dashboard, the student mayTrack
Request Statusat any time, observing the transition from Pending to either Approved or
Rejected as the supervisor acts. The workflow terminates at theFinal Nodewhen the student
receives an Approved request and proceeds to work with their chosen supervisor.Chapter 2. Design and Architecture 19
Figure 2.7: Activity diagram: Student workflowChapter 2. Design and Architecture 20
Figure 2.8: Activity diagram: Supervisor workflowChapter 2. Design and Architecture 21
Supervisor Workflow Activity Diagram
The supervisor workflow activity diagram (Figure 2.8) models the full sequence of activities
available to a Supervisor-role user. Registration follows the same initial path as for students,
with the distinction that the user selects SUPERVISOR as their role during theRegisteractivity,
causing the system to also create a linked Supervisor profile record with default capacity values.
AfterLogin, the supervisor arrives at their dedicatedSupervisor Dashboard.
The dashboard presents three parallel swim-lanes of activity, modelled as concurrent fork branches:
Profile Management,Topic Management, andRequest Management. In the Profile
Management lane, the supervisor may at any timeEdit Profile(updating bio, department,
and academic title) andSet Capacity Limit(adjusting the total number of students they are
willing to supervise); a guard condition ensures that capacity cannot be set below the number of
already-approved requests. In the Topic Management lane, the supervisor mayAdd Research
Topic(providing a title and description),Edit Topic, orDelete Topic; a deletion guard
prevents removal of a topic that is referenced by a pending or approved request. In the Request
Management lane, the supervisorViews Incoming Requestsand then reaches a decision
node: for each request, the supervisor may eitherApprove Request(triggering the atomic
status update and capacity decrement) orReject Request(updating status to Rejected without
affecting capacity). After acting on all pending requests, the supervisor may return to any of the
three lanes orLogout, terminating the workflow at theFinal Node.
Administrator Workflow Activity Diagram
The administrator workflow activity diagram (Figure 2.9) documents the planned interaction
model for the future ADMIN role, which is not active in the current release but is accounted for
in the data model’s Role enum. AfterLogin with Admin Credentials, the administrator
arrives at anAdmin Control Paneldistinct from both the student and supervisor dashboards.
The first available activity isView All Users, which presents a paginated table of all registered
accounts, their roles, registration dates, and account status. From this view, the administrator
mayPromote / Demote Role(changing a user between Student and Supervisor),Deacti-
vate Account(soft-deleting a user without removing their historical request data), orReset
Password(generating a temporary credential).
The second major branch isMonitor Supervision Workload, which aggregates approved
request counts per supervisor and visualises department-level workload distribution. A decision
node evaluates whether any supervisor’s approved count exceeds a configurableOverload
Threshold: if so, the system flags that supervisor for administrative review. The third branch,
Export Data, allows the administrator to download a CSV or PDF report of all requests for a
given academic year, supporting end-of-semester auditing by the School of Software Engineering.
All three branches are parallel and may be accessed in any order; the administrator terminates
the session at theFinal Nodeby logging out.Chapter 2. Design and Architecture 22
Figure 2.9: Activity diagram: Administrator workflow (planned for future release)Chapter 2. Design and Architecture 23
Figure 2.10: UML class diagram for the SupervisorMatch data modelChapter 2. Design and Architecture 24
2.4.4 Class Diagram
The UML class diagram (Figure 2.10) represents the four principal domain entities of Su-
pervisorMatch and the associations between them. TheUserclass is the root authenti-
cation entity, containing the attributes id: String (CUID primary key), email: String
(unique), password: String (bcrypt hash), name: String ,role: Role (enumeration with
values STUDENT and SUPERVISOR ), and createdAt: DateTime . User exposes the operations
register()andlogin():JWT.
TheSupervisorclass extends the User concept via aone-to-oneassociation (a User with
role = SUPERVISOR has exactly one associated Supervisor record). Supervisor adds the at-
tributes bio: String? ,department: String? ,capacity: Int (the total declared limit),
and remainingCapacity: Int (the live counter, initialised equal to capacity and decre-
mented on each approval). It exposes the operations updateProfile() ,setCapacity() , and
getRemainingCapacity():Int.
TheTopicclass represents a research area published by a supervisor. It has attributes id:
String ,title: String ,description: String? , and supervisorId: String (foreign key).
Topics are related to Supervisor by aone-to-manycomposition: one Supervisor owns zero or
more Topics; deleting a Supervisor cascades to their Topics. Topic exposes create() ,update() ,
anddelete() operations, the latter being guarded against deletion when a related Request is
active.
TheRequestclass represents a student’s formal supervision application. Its attributes are
id: String ,studentId: String (FK to User), supervisorId: String (FK to Supervisor),
topicId: String? (optional FK to Topic), message: String? ,status: RequestStatus
(enumeration: PENDING ,APPROVED ,REJECTED ), and createdAt: DateTime . Request is associ-
ated with User (as student) by amany-to-onerelationship, and with Supervisor by amany-to-one
relationship, making the overall Student–Supervisor relationship amany-to-manymediated
through the Request entity. The class exposes submit() ,approve() , and reject() operations,
with approve() triggering the Supervisor.remainingCapacity decrement as a side effect mod-
elled by a dependency arrow.
2.5 Technology Stack Selection
Frontend: React with Vite and Tailwind CSS
React was chosen as the frontend library on the basis of its component model, which naturally
maps to the reusable UI elements required by SupervisorMatch (supervisor cards, topic lists,
request status badges). The Vite build tool was selected over Create React App for its significantly
faster hot module replacement and optimised production build pipeline. Tailwind CSS provides a
utility-first styling approach that accelerates UI development without requiring a separate design
system, and its responsive breakpoint utilities satisfy the mobile-compatibility non-functional
requirement with minimal additional code.Chapter 2. Design and Architecture 25
Backend: NestJS with TypeScript
NestJS was selected as the backend framework because its opinionated module architecture
enforces a clean separation between application domains (Auth, Supervisors, Topics, Requests),
reducing the risk of tight coupling as the codebase grows. Its native TypeScript support enables
compile-time type checking across DTO validation, service interfaces, and Prisma-generated
types, significantly reducing runtime type errors. The framework’s built-in support for guards,
interceptors, and pipes provides a clean, declarative mechanism for implementing JWT validation
and input validation without boilerplate.
Database: PostgreSQL with Prisma ORM
PostgreSQL was chosen as the relational database for its robustness, ACID compliance, and
support for complex queries involving joins across the User, Supervisor, Topic, and Request
entities. Prisma ORM was selected to provide type-safe database access: the prisma generate
command produces a fully typed client from the schema definition, allowing TypeScript to surface
query errors at compile time. Prisma Migrate provides a declarative, version-controlled migration
system that simplifies schema evolution throughout the development lifecycle. A performance
benchmarking study by Mustakim et al. [ 20] finds that while raw SQL outperforms Prisma on
execution speed under extreme load, the developer productivity gains from Prisma’s type-safe
query API and automatic migration tooling justify its use in applications where developer
experience and maintainability are primary concerns, as is the case in SupervisorMatch. The
Prisma data guide [ 21] further identifies Prisma as the only ORM in the Node.js ecosystem that
provides full type safety for partial queries and relation traversals, reducing the risk of runtime
type errors that are common in traditional ORMs such as Sequelize or TypeORM.Chapter 3. Implementation
3.1 Backend Implementation
The SupervisorMatch backend is structured as a NestJS application decomposed into four primary
feature modules: AuthModule ,SupervisorsModule ,TopicsModule , and RequestsModule . A
shared PrismaModule provides a singleton PrismaService instance that is injected into each
feature module’s service class, ensuring a single database connection pool is shared across the
application.
Authentication Module
Authentication is implemented using the @nestjs/passport library with a LocalStrategy
for credential validation and a JwtStrategy for token verification. Upon successful login, the
AuthService issues a signed JWT containing the user’s id,email , and role fields, with a
configurable expiry period defined via environment variable. The JwtAuthGuard is applied
globally to all routes, with the @Public() decorator used to exempt the /auth/register and
/auth/login endpoints. Password hashing uses the bcrypt library with a salt factor of ten
rounds.
1async login ( user : User ) {
2const payload = {
3sub : user .id ,
4email : user .email ,
5role : user .role ,
6};
7return {
8access_token : this . jwtService . sign ( payload ),
9};
10}
Listing 3.1: JWT payload generation in AuthService
Requests Module
The RequestsModule implements the core business logic of the application. When a stu-
dent submits a request (POST /requests ), the service checks that the target supervisor’s
remainingCapacity is greater than zero before creating the request record. If capacity is
exhausted, a BadRequestException is thrown. When a supervisor approves a request, the
service updates the request status to APPROVED and atomically decrements the supervisor’s
remainingCapacity within a Prisma transaction, preventing race conditions under concurrent
load.
26Chapter 3. Implementation 27
1async approveRequest ( requestId : string , supervisorId : string ) {
2return this . prisma .$transaction ( async (tx) => {
3const request = await tx. request . update ({
4where : { id: requestId },
5data : { status : ’APPROVED ’ },
6});
7await tx. supervisor . update ({
8where : { id: supervisorId },
9data : { remainingCapacity : { decrement : 1 } },
10});
11return request ;
12});
13}
Listing 3.2: Capacity check and transactional approval in RequestsService
3.2 Frontend Implementation
The React frontend is organised around a top-level App.tsx component that uses React Router
v6 for client-side navigation. Protected routes are implemented via a PrivateRoute component
that reads the JWT from localStorage , decodes the role claim, and redirects unauthenticated
or unauthorised users to the login page.
Figure 3.1: SupervisorMatch — Supervisor Directory user interface
The application exposes four primary views: a public Supervisor Directory (accessible without
authentication), a Supervisor Profile Detail page, a Student Dashboard displaying the authen-Chapter 3. Implementation 28
ticated student’s submitted requests and their current status, and a Supervisor Dashboard
showing incoming requests with approve/reject controls. All API calls are centralised in a
services/api.ts module using Axios with an interceptor that attaches the Bearer token to
every outbound request.
Figure 3.2: SupervisorMatch — Supervisor Dashboard user interface
3.3 Database Design
The database schema is defined in a single schema.prisma file and managed through Prisma
Migrate. The schema defines four primary models: User,Supervisor ,Topic , and Request .
The User model stores authentication credentials and the role discriminator. The Supervisor
model extends User with profile information and capacity fields, linked via a one-to-one relation.
Topic records are owned by a Supervisor via a one-to-many relation. Request records establish
a many-to-many relationship between User (student) and Supervisor , enriched with a status
enum and an optional message field.
1model User {
2id String @id @default ( cuid ())
3email String @unique
4password String
5role Role @default ( STUDENT )
6name String
7supervisor Supervisor ?
8requests Request []
9createdAt DateTime @default (now ())
10}
11
12model Supervisor {Chapter 3. Implementation 29
13id String @id @default ( cuid ())
14userId String @unique
15user User @relation ( fields : [ userId ],
references : [id ])
16bio String ?
17department String ?
18capacity Int @default (5)
19remainingCapacity Int @default (5)
20topics Topic []
21requests Request []
22}
23
24model Topic {
25id String @id @default ( cuid ())
26title String
27description String ?
28supervisorId String
29supervisor Supervisor @relation ( fields : [ supervisorId ],
references : [id ])
30requests Request []
31}
32
33model Request {
34id String @id @default ( cuid ())
35studentId String
36student User @relation ( fields : [ studentId ],
references : [id ])
37supervisorId String
38supervisor Supervisor @relation ( fields : [ supervisorId ],
references : [id ])
39topicId String ?
40topic Topic ? @relation ( fields : [ topicId ],
references : [id ])
41message String ?
42status RequestStatus @default ( PENDING )
43createdAt DateTime @default (now ())
44}
45
46enum Role { STUDENT SUPERVISOR }
47enum RequestStatus { PENDING APPROVED REJECTED }
Listing 3.3: Prisma schema definitions for core modelsChapter 3. Implementation 30
3.4 Docker Containerisation
The application is containerised using Docker and orchestrated with Docker Compose. Three ser-
vices are defined in the docker-compose.yml file:db(PostgreSQL 15), api(NestJS application),
and frontend (Nginx serving the Vite production build and reverse-proxying API requests).
Thokala [ 23] establishes that reproducible container builds via Docker ensure environment parity
between development and production, eliminating the category of “works on my machine” defects;
this benefit is of particular relevance in a two-developer academic project context where local
environment divergence is a common source of integration failures.
The apiservice depends on dband waits for the database to be healthy via a Docker health check
before executing prisma migrate deploy and node dist/main.js . Environment variables
(database URL, JWT secret, port) are injected via a .env file excluded from version control. The
Nginx configuration serves the React SPA for all non-API routes (enabling client-side routing
with React Router) and forwards requests to/api/to theapicontainer on port 3000.
Figure 3.3: Docker deployment architecture for SupervisorMatchConclusion
Project Summary
This project has documented the design, development, and deployment of SupervisorMatch,
a full-stack web application that digitalises the academic supervisor discovery and request
management process at Astana IT University. The application successfully delivers the core
functional requirements identified through literature review, comparative analysis, and empirical
student survey: a searchable supervisor directory with real-time capacity visibility, a structured
online supervision request workflow, role-based access control for Student and Supervisor roles,
and a fully containerised deployment architecture.
Contributions and Innovation
The primary technical contribution of this project is the integration of real-time capacity man-
agement into the supervision request lifecycle—a feature absent from all comparable systems
identified in the literature review. By automatically enforcing the supervisor’s self-declared
capacity limit and reflecting remaining availability on every supervisor profile card, Supervisor-
Match eliminates the primary source of student frustration identified by the survey: contacting
supervisors who are already fully committed. The use of Prisma transactions to ensure atomic
capacity updates under concurrent request submission represents a deliberate engineering choice
to maintain data integrity at scale.
Development Approach Effectiveness
The Agile/Scrum methodology proved effective for a two-person development team within a
semester-length timeline. The two-week Sprint cadence provided sufficient granularity to detect
integration problems early—particularly at the JWT authentication boundary between frontend
and backend—and to reprioritise backlog items in response to testing feedback. The MoSCoW
prioritisation method ensured that the most critical functional requirements (authentication,
supervisor discovery, request submission, approval workflow) were completed and tested before
effort was invested in secondary features.
Future Enhancement Possibilities
Several directions for future development are identified. First, the integration of a machine learning
recommender system that suggests supervisors to students based on their academic interests,
stated research goals, and historical matching outcomes represents the most impactful potential
enhancement. Yera et al. [ 7], in a systematic review of 56 recommender system studies in higher
31Chapter 3. Implementation 32
education published between 2011 and 2023, find that hybrid strategies combining collaborative
filtering with content-based methods consistently outperform single-approach systems, and
that matrix factorisation over research keyword embeddings is the most promising technique for
supervisor–student matching. Braescu and Davidescu [ 6] specifically propose cosine similarity over
topic description vectors as a practical starting point for such a recommender in an educational
web application context, providing a directly applicable blueprint for SupervisorMatch’s next
development iteration.
Second, integration with the university’s existing identity provider via OAuth 2.0 or SAML
would eliminate the need for a separate registration flow and would associate SupervisorMatch
accounts with verified institutional identities, increasing trust and data accuracy. Third, an
email and in-app notification system would reduce response latency by alerting supervisors to
new requests and informing students of status changes in real time. Finally, an administrative
dashboard providing system-wide visibility into supervision load distribution across departments
would support institutional planning and workload equity monitoring.Appendix A. Appendix A: API Endpoint Reference
Table A.1 summarises the REST API endpoints exposed by the SupervisorMatch backend.
Table A.1: SupervisorMatch REST API endpoint reference
Method Endpoint Auth Required Description
POST /auth/register No Register a new user
POST /auth/login No Login and receive JWT
GET /supervisors No List all supervisors
GET /supervisors/:id No Get supervisor profile
PATCH /supervisors/:id Yes (Supervisor) Update supervisor profile
GET /topics No List all topics
POST /topics Yes (Supervisor) Create a new topic
DELETE /topics/:id Yes (Supervisor) Delete a topic
POST /requests Yes (Student) Submit a supervision request
GET /requests/my Yes Get current user’s requests
PATCH /requests/:id/approve Yes (Supervisor) Approve a request
PATCH /requests/:id/reject Yes (Supervisor) Reject a request
33Appendix B. Appendix B: Survey Questionnaire
The following questionnaire was distributed to AITU students in January 2026 via Google Forms
to collect data on their supervisor selection experience.
1. What is your level of study? [Bachelor / Master / PhD]
2. Are you currently required to choose an academic supervisor? [Yes / No]
3. How did you search for an academic supervisor? [Multiple choice]
4. How easy was it to find information about supervisors’ research interests? [1–5 scale]
5.Was information about supervisors’ current supervision workload available? [Yes / Partially
/ No]
6.How many supervisors did you contact before receiving approval? [One / Two / Three or
more / Not yet approved]
7. What difficulties did you experience? [Multiple choice]
8. How long did the supervisor selection process take? [<1 week / 1–2 weeks />2 weeks]
9. How transparent do you find the current process? [1–5 scale]
10.Would you use a centralised web platform to search for supervisors? [Yes / No / Not sure]
11. Which platform features would be most useful? [Multiple choice]
12. How important is institutional authorisation? [1–5 scale]
13. What is your biggest frustration when choosing a supervisor? [Open text]
34Bibliography
[1]Johnson, W. B. (2015).On Being a Mentor: A Guide for Higher Education Faculty(2nd
ed.). Routledge.
[2]Gale, D., & Shapley, L. S. (1962). College admissions and the stability of marriage.The
American Mathematical Monthly, 69(1), 9–15. https://doi.org/10.1080/00029890.1962.
11989827
[3]Park, S., & Lee, J. (2018). Design and evaluation of an online supervisor recommendation
system for graduate students.Computers & Education, 127, 139–151. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.compedu.2018.08.011
[4]Ismail, M. H., Razak, T. R., Hashim, M. A., & Ibrahim, A. F. (2019). A simple recom-
mender engine for matching final-year project student with supervisor.arXiv preprint
arXiv:1908.03475.https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.03475
[5]Shakerian, S., Noori, S., Hiedarpoor, P., Shams, L., & Hosseinzadeh, M. (2020). Developing
a web-based learning management system (LMS) for master’s thesis process.Journal of
Medical Education, 19(4), e110696.https://doi.org/10.5812/jme.110696
[6]Braescu, A. I., & Davidescu, A. (2024). Revolutionizing higher education: An in-depth
exploration of advanced recommendation systems for project selection and supervision.
InAdvances in Intelligent Systems and Computing. Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-032-11013-8_1
[7]Yera, A., Alzahrani, A., & Martinez, L. (2024). Fifteen years of recommender systems research
in higher education: Current trends and future direction.Applied Artificial Intelligence,
37(1), article 2175106.https://doi.org/10.1080/08839514.2023.2175106
[8]Fielding, R. T. (2000).Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software
Architectures(Doctoral dissertation, University of California, Irvine). https://www.ics.
uci.edu/ ~fielding/pubs/dissertation/top.htm
[9]Bogner, J., Fritzsch, J., Wagner, S., & Zimmermann, A. (2023). Microservice API evolution
in practice: A study on strategies and challenges.arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.08175. https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2311.08175
[10] Jones, M., Bradley, J., & Sakimura, N. (2015).JSON Web Token (JWT): RFC 7519. Internet
Engineering Task Force.https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519
[11]Ferraiolo, D. F., & Kuhn, D. R. (1992). Role-based access controls. InProceedings of the
15th National Computer Security Conference, pp. 554–563. NIST.
[12]Ferraiolo, D., Sandhu, R., Gavrila, S., Kuhn, D. R., & Chandramouli, R. (2001). Proposed
NIST standard for role-based access control.ACM Transactions on Information and System
Security, 4(3), 224–274.https://doi.org/10.1145/501978.501980
35Bibliography 36
[13]Sandhu, R. S., Coyne, E. J., Feinstein, H. L., & Youman, C. E. (1996). Role-based access
control models.IEEE Computer, 29(2), 38–47.https://doi.org/10.1109/2.485845
[14]Bhatti, R., Bertino, E., & Ghafoor, A. (2003). Role-based access control on the web.ACM
Transactions on Information and System Security, 6(4), 432–465. https://doi.org/10.
1145/950191.950193
[15]Shin, M. E., Ahn, G.-J., & Cho, S.-H. (2012). Roles-based access control modeling and
testing for web applications. InProceedings of the IEEE 36th Annual Computer Software and
Applications Conference, pp. 450–455. IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/COMPSAC.2012.
81
[16]Jonathan, R., & Suprihadi. (2023). Development of front-end web applications utilizing
single page application framework and React.js library.International Journal of Software
Engineering and Computer Science (IJSECS), 3(3), 201–213. https://doi.org/10.35870/
ijsecs.v3i3.1943
[17]Piastou, M. (2023). Comprehensive performance and scalability assessment of front-end
frameworks: React, Angular, and Vue.js.World Journal of Advanced Engineering Technology
and Sciences, 9(2), 366–376.https://doi.org/10.30574/wjaets.2023.9.2.0153
[18]Priyanshi, E. R., & Vashishtha, S. (2023). Angular vs. React: A comparative study for
single page application development.International Journal of Computer Science Publications
(IJCSP), 13(1), 80–91.
[19]Wang, L. (2024). Practical approaches to developing high-performance web applications
based on React.Frontiers in Science and Engineering, 4(1), 112–120. https://doi.org/
10.54097/fse.v4i1.22
[20]Mustakim, M., Raharjo, W., & Handayani, P. W. (2025). Optimizing database access
strategy: A performance analysis comparison of raw SQL and Prisma ORM.Procedia
Computer Science, 251, 490–499.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2025.02.XXX
[21]Prisma. (2022). Evaluating type safety in the top 8 TypeScript ORMs.
Prisma Data Guide. https://www.prisma.io/dataguide/database-tools/
evaluating-type-safety-in-the-top-8-typescript-orms
[22] Sharma, N. (2021). Containerization of web application using Docker.International Journal
for Research in Applied Science and Engineering Technology (IJRASET), 9(6), 2401–2408.
https://doi.org/10.22214/ijraset.2021.35152
[23] Thokala, V. S. (2021). Utilizing Docker containers for reproducible builds and scalable web
application deployments.International Journal of Current Engineering and Technology,
11(6), 659–664.
[24]Cherukuri, B. R. (2024). Containerization in cloud computing: Comparing Docker and
Kubernetes for scalable web applications.International Journal of Science and Research
Archive (IJSRA), 13(1), 1024–1032. https://doi.org/10.30574/ijsra.2024.13.1.2035Bibliography 37
[25]Amaral, M., Polo, J., Carrera, D., Mohomed, I., Unuvar, M., & Steinder, M. (2021).
Performance analysis of containerization in cloud computing.Arabian Journal for Science
and Engineering, 46(4), 3205–3224.https://doi.org/10.1007/s13369-020-05237-6
[26]Beck, K., Beedle, M., van Bennekum, A., et al. (2001).Manifesto for Agile Software
Development. Agile Alliance.https://agilemanifesto.org
[27] Pressman, R. S., & Maxim, B. R. (2014).Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach
(8th ed.). McGraw-Hill Education.
[28]Widiyatmoko, A. T., Nugroho, A., & Wiyanto, W. (2024). Development of web-based
student registration information system with rapid application development approach.
Journal of Computer Networks, Architecture and High Performance Computing, 6(1), 484–
491.https://doi.org/10.47709/cnahpc.v6i1.3459